{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033\deflangfe2052{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.2.9200}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\i\f0\fs24 MATH209.\par
\b0\par
\b Week 4 Discussion Question1\i0 :\par
\fs20 Quadratic equations, which are expressed in the form of \i ax\super\i0 2\nosupersub  + \i bx\i0  + \i c\i0  = 0, where \i a\i0  does not equal 0, may have how many solutions? Explain why and give examples for each case.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Your answer is correct. We can say that any quadratic equation has two solutions.  But a lot of times we divide them into the following different scenarios.\par
Given ax^2+bx+c=0, the discriminant D=b^2-4ac,  quadratic formula gives (as you stated) x1=(-b+sqrt(D))/(2a), x2= (-b-sqrt(D))/(2a).\par
\par
Case 1: D>0, then x1 and x2 are two different numbers, so the equation has two distinct solution. Geometrically the parabola ax^2+bx+c intersects the x-axis at two different points.\par
            Example: x^2-3x+2=0.\par
\par
Case 2: D=0, in this case x1=x2=-b/(2a). Geometrically the parabola touches the x-axis at exactly one point. Usually we say this equation has one solution. \par
          Example: x^2-2x+1=0\par
\par
Case 3: D<0, then sqrt(D) has no meaning in real numbers. Geometrically the parabola is either completely above or completely below the x-axis without touching it. Usually we say this equation has no solution.  However after learning the concept of complex number, you'll see that sqrt(D) is also meaningful even if D<0.  Using that concept we can show the equation has two "complex" solutions. But this is beyond this course. \par
       Example: x^2+x+4=0.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\par
Very good. Just need a bit clarification in the "zero" case.  Whether a polynomial is "factorable" actually invovles very deep mathematics.  The detailed discussion of this topic is way beyond this course. So I'll illustrate the point by a few simple examples. \par
(1) If we only consider integers, then x^2-3x+2 is factorable as (x-1)(x-2), but x^2-3x+1 is not factorable since you cannot find two integers a and b such that x^2-3x+1=(x-a)(x-b). Note this is usually what we mean when we are trying to factor a polynomial by hand.\par
(2) Now if we can use all real numbers, then x^2-3x+2 is still factorable because any integer is also a real number, moreover x^2-3x+1 also becomes factorable since \par
x^2-3x+1=[x-(3-sqrt(5))/2][x+(3+sqrt(5))/2] using the quadratic formula. Note that (3-sqrt(5))/2 and (3+sqrt(5))/2 are both real numbers, but they are not integers.  This is usually what we mean when we are trying to solve quadratic equations.  Now using your example,  2x^2-2x+11 is no factorable.\par
(3) If we can use all complex number, then even 2x^2-2x+11 is factorable. This is beyond this course, so I'll stop here.\par
\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\b0 Very good example. The solution to x+2 = 0 should be x=-2 instead of x=2 which I believe is a typo of yours.\par
\par
But the meaning of your first paragraph is unclear to me. What do you mean "if zero(0) is used in the place of a variable"? Could you please give some examples to illustrate your points?\par
\par
The example you gave have two solutions. Please also consider the cases when a quadratic equation has 0 or 1 solution and give corresponding examples.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Excellent job! \par
There are two reasons that I would like you to think about the problem from a geometric perspective:\par
(1) In general, algebra and geometry are two different branches of mathematics and they train different thinking skills. Roughly speaking, to be good at algebra you must excel in numerical and symbolic calculation; while geometry focuses on visualizing things. Thinking from different perspectives can greatly strengthen your understanding of the concept.\par
(2) Parabola is especially helpful in learning anything related to quadratic functions. For any problem about quadratic function/equation/inequality, you should at least spend  a little time trying to visualize it. People tend to forget formulas very quickly, but graphs usually stay in our mind much longer.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Actually a quadratic equation can have at most 2 different solutions. Try to think geometrically: how many times can a parabola intercept with the x-axis?\par
\par
About your examples: \par
(1) A=8 B=2 C=9, is this for equation 8x^2+2x+9=0? This equation has no solution (why?).\par
\par
(2) 8x+8 = 0 ---> 8x = -8 ---> x = -1\par
     x+8 =0 ---> x = -8\par
   So (8x+8)(x+8) = 0 has two solutions -1 and -8.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Well, I think you have to intentionally try to think in both ways (algebraic and geometric) when dealing with problems related to lines, parabolas etc. \par
For example, considering a quadratic function f(x) = x^2+4x+6, can you do the following:\par
(1) find the solutions to f(x) = 0 \par
(2) complete square of f(x)\par
(3) using (2) find the minimum value of f(x)\par
(4) draw the parabola as accurate as possible by hand: find the vertex, the x-intercepts and y-intercept etc.\par
\par
(1-3) are algebra while (4) is geometry. After you complete (1-4), can you see the relation between them.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar I agree that the material is getting harder. But one of the main objective of general education is to give you an all-around training. Math, in particular, is a good tool to develop analytical skills, patience and carefulness. It's human nature to feel uneasy when stepping out of comfort zone. But this is the only way to enlarge your comfort zone and to get better. And you're right, you have to practice a lot. But work each problem carefully, make sure you understand each step.\par
\par
If you have any question about any specific math problem, feel free to post it in your individual forum and I'll try to guide you through.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\b Week 4 Discussion Question2:\par
\fs20 Explain the  steps for solving quadratic equations and give at least one example. Can any of these steps be eliminated? Can the order of these steps be changed? \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\b0 Very good. Factoring is the first method most people try when facing a quadratic equation because it's simple and involves less calculation. However, in reality most quadratic  equations cannot be factored. In those cases we'll have to resort to the quadratic formula.  Although the formula is kind of complicated with the discriminant and square root, it provides a sure-kill for any quadratic equation. So it's also important to understand how to derive the formula (completing square) and how to use it correctly.\par
\b\fs24\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360\fs20\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\b0 .\fs24 Excellent answer!\par
Regarding imaginary number, frankly I was quite surprised that this topic is covered in this course.  In the time when I learned quadratic equation, usually algebra courses stop at telling you that the equation has no solution or the parabola does not intersect the x-axis. While the concept of imaginary number was usually introduced in Complex Analysis, a more advanced course.  Essentially the imaginary number "i" is defined to has the property i^2 = -1.  If you have any question, feel free to ask me in your individual forum.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar It's a good example, Tina. But you had a typo  in the third step.\par
(4x^2/4)-(2x/4)=5/4  ---> correct.\par
x^2 - 1/2 = 5/4  ---> incorrect, you forgot the x in the second parenthese.\par
should be: x^2 - (1/2)x = 5/4\par
rewrite it as : x^2 - 2x(1/4) + (1/4)^2 = (5/4)+(1/4)^2\par
complete the square using the formula a^2 - 2ab + b^2 = (a-b)^2: (x-1/4)^2 = 21/16\par
\par
The completing square is a useful technique. Many people have trouble getting it right. Glad to see that you have mastered it.\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360\fs20\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360\par
Consider a monomial (a polynomial having only one term) ax^n where a is a real number, n is a positive integer and x is the variable. We say a is the coefficient and n is the degree of the monomial. For example, for 5x^3 we say 5 is the coefficient while 3 is the degree.   A special case is when the monomial is just a number in this case the degree n=0.\par
\par
Now consider a polynomial with more than one terms. In other words, it consists several monomials.  For example,  P(x)=3x + 5 +6x^2.  Most properties of P(x) are determined by its highest degree monomial. So usually we would first reorganize the terms of P(x) so that the degrees of those monomials are in decreasing order: P(x) = 6x^2 + 3x  +5. \par
Now the degree of the first monomial (or the highest one) is defined to be the degree of the polynomial: degree(P(x)) = 2; and the coefficient of the first monomial is defined to be the leading coefficient of the polynomial.  As another example, Q(x) = -2 + 5x^2 - 3x + 4x^4 should be reorganized as Q(x) = 4x^4 + 5x^2 -3x -2 from which we can tell that its degree is 4 and leading coefficient is also 4.\par
\par
A polynomial equation is an equation that can be written as (after some moving around) P(x) =0 where P(x) is a polynomial.  For example,  2-3x = -4x^2 is a polynomial equation because it can written as 4x^2 - 3x + 2 =0.  The degree of a polynomial equation is defined to be the degree of the corresponding polynomial P(x). In this example because the degree of 4x^2-3x+2  is 2, we say it's a degree 2 polynomial equation which we usually refer to as a quadratic equation.  Another example,  2x^3+4 = 3x -3x^2 should be rewritten as 2x^3+3x^2-3x+4 = 0. And we then can see that it's a degree 3 polynomial equation which is often referred to as a cubic equation.\par
}
 