{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033\deflangfe2052{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\i\f0\fs24 MATH209.\par
\b0\par
\b Week 3 Discussion Question1\i0 :\par
\fs20 Explain the steps for solving rational equations. Can any of these steps be eliminated? Can the order of these steps be changed?\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Very good. The example that you gave is the simplest case where the denominators are just numbers. When x appears in some denominator, then we have to exclude the zeros on those denominators from our solution.\par
As an simple example, consider  3/x  = (5+x)/x  ----> 3x = 5x + x^2 ---> x^2 + 2x = 0 ---> x(x+2) = 0 ---> x=0 and x=-2. But x cannot = 0 because that will make some denominator 0, hence x can only be -2.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Unfortunately it is true that there are more and more rules to remember because the problem that you're dealing with is getting harder. Now you can see the importance of PEMDAS without which we may get different interpretation of the same expression. In some sense, learning math is like building a house. The foundation is very important. If the basement or crawlspace is in bad shape, no matter how luxury the master bedroom is, the house is in bad condition. The only way to master a new rule/technique is to first understand it then practice with many exercises slowly until you get a hang of it.  \par
 \fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\i\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\b0\i0 Tina, 18x^4/30x^7 is not a rational equation (why?). It is a rational expression. Please review the difference between rational expression and rational equation and re-answer this question.\par
\par
What you described is the way to simplify rational expression. You have given a very clear example. The only minor correction is the first step: here we are not looking for the greatest common denominator (we need that when we add two fractions),  instead we want to find the greatest common factor of the numerator and the denominator, and 6x^4 is the GCF.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar When adding two (or more) rational expressions, the first step is to transform them so that they all have the same denominator. In principle, you don't have to find the least common denominator (LCD), any common denominator will do.  For example, say I want to add two rational expressions:  1/x^2 + 1/x. The LCD is clearly x^2. So we have \par
1/x^2+1/x = 1/x^2 + x/x^2 = (1+x)/x^2.  Now if I don't know how to find the LCD, I can just find the product of the two denominators and get a common denominator x^2*x=x^3. Using this I have 1/x^2 + 1/x = x/x^3 + x^2/x^3 = (x+x^2)/x^3.  Both are correct, but the latter can be further simplified by finding the GCF of the numerator and the denominator\par
GCF(x+x^2, x^3) = x. Hence (x+x^2)/x^3 = x(1+x)/ [x*x^2] = (1+x)/x^2.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\par
I can't stress enough the importance of taking each step slowly and always double checking your work. So I'm glad that you're doing that. There is no denial that the material is getting more complicated. Solving a problem usually involves multiple steps. A small mistake in one step will lead to a totally wrong answer. \par
\par
A common mistake when simplifying rational expression that I have seen frequently in previous classes is to cancel any common terms of numerator and denominator.  For example, many people do this (x+3)/(x+4) = 3/4 ---- they cross out the x from both top and the bottom.\par
It's important to remember that we can only cancel common factors.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Very good!\par
One suggestion is to write your equation as (X-1)/15=2/5. Because division has higher priority than subtraction, X-1/15=2/5 actually means "X minus 1/15 equals 2/5". So to solve X-1/15=2/5 we just need to add 1/15 to both sides and get X=2/5+1/15 = 7/15.\par
What you described is actually for solving (X-1)/15=2/5. Even though it's a very minor mistake, I want to remind you the importance of keeping PEMDAS in mind.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar Very good answer.\par
Two points that can be improved:\par
(1) There is no such thing as greatest common denominator. For example, consider 1/10 and 1/15. The common denominators of these two fractions are just the common multiple of 10 and 15, i.e., \{30, 60, 90,......\} all multiples of 30. So there is no greatest common denominator, what we need to find is the least common denominator, here 30 is the one.\par
\par
(2) The denominators of rational expressions may be polynomials, therefore common denominators may be polynomials instead of numbers.\par
\par
For example, I want to solve 2/(x+1) = 3/x.  The least common denominator is x(x+1) (not a number). So I multiply both sides by x(x+1):\par
2x(x+1)/(x+1) = 3x(x+1)/x ----> 2x = 3(x+1) ---> 2x = 3x + 3 ---> x = -3.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar I'm glad that you read the textbook very carefully. Here are my two cents: no step should be skipped; but when the problem is really simple or when you're very experienced with solving this type of problems, you can just do a mental check on certain step. I'll use Example (1a) on page 464 for discussion:\par
Solve: 5/3 = 4/x\par
Step1: LCD = 3x.\par
Step2: Multiply both sides by 3x --> 3*x*5/3 = 3*x*4/x  ---> 5x = 3*4\par
Step3: Simplify each term --> 5x = 12\par
Step4: Solve the resulting equation --> x = 12/5\par
Step5: Check the answer by plugging 12/5 for x in the original equation.  Left-hand-side = 5/3, right-hand-side=4/x = 4/(12/5) = 4*5/12 = 5/3= left-hand-side, check done. \par
\par
In the textbook, step 1-3 are combined which is only recommended when the problem is really simple for you.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\par
I agree that GCF and LCD are kind of confusing. Actually many people get them mixed.  To understand the concepts more clearly, we need to see the difference between factor and multiple. Let's say I have two polynomials P(x) = x and Q(x) =x(x+1); as an additional example I also have two integers A = 8 and B=16.\par
\par
Since Q(x) can be written as P(x) times another polynomial, we say x is a factor of x(x+1) equivalently, x(x+1) is a multiple of x.\par
\par
Similarly for the numbers, since B can be written as A times another integer, we say 8 is a factor of 16, equivalently, 16 is a multiple of 8.\par
\par
GCF means the greatest common factor. While LCD means the least common denominator, but it actually means the least common multiple of all denominators. \par
\par
Week 3 Discussion Question2:\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360\b\fs20\par
What are the steps for simplifying radicals? Can any step be deleted?\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360\par
You have described very clearly the way to simplify square root radicals. But a lot of times we're dealing with higher degree radicals. For example, you may be asked to simplify the cubic root of 81 or fourth-root of 64 etc. In those cases you will following essentially the same idea by breaking down the radicand into its perfect power numbers corresponding to the appropriate degree.  For example, to simplify the cubic-root of 81, we write 81=(3^3)*3, then get cubic-root(81) = 3*cubic-root(3). \par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360 Good post. As Laurie pointed out, you probably meant 7^2 instead of 7^7.  So your example should be written as sqrt(7^2*x^4*y^5) = 7x^2y^2sqrt(y).  \par
Whether we should look for perfect square or perfect cube depends on the degree of the radical. If it's square root (degree=2) as in your example, then we should find perfect squares such as 7^2*(x^2)^2*(y^2)^2 etc. On the other hand, if it's cubic root (degree=3), then we should find perfect cubes.  If we change the problem to simplify cubic_root(7^2*x^4*y^5), we will proceed as  cubic_root(7^2*x^4*y^5) = cubic_root(7^2*x^3*x*y^3*y^2) = xy*cubic_root(49xy^2).\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360\par
\b0 Tina, you were discussing how to solve radical equations which is usually pretty hard and you have given a very good example.\par
However, that's not exactly what this discussion question asks.  You need to explain the steps (hopefully with some example) to simplify radical expressions. Again note the difference between equation and expression. Please read Section 10.3.\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\par

\pard\widctlpar\li360 Re: Week 3 DQ#2 due Friday\par
Posted: Thu 08/15/2013 09:53 PM , by: Bree Bell ( breedbell@email.phoenix.edu )\par
\par
\par
I have a few comments/questions.\par
Step1: when the radical expression is a pure number, i.e., no variables such as x, y, z etc. involved, we can do prime factorization of the integer inside the radical sign as you suggested.\par
But when the inside is a polynomial instead of just a number, you need to factor the whole polynomial. Just factoring the coefficients is not enough.\par
\par
Step2: I'm a little confused. Could you please explain it using an example?\par
Step3: We're dealing with radical expression instead of equation. So there is no "=" sign. I'm not sure what do you mean "move the numbers to one side".\par
\par
Please read Section 10.3 for details and examples.\par
}
 